Modify rule S5883: Update PHP text to education framework structure[APPSEC-199] (#1332)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5883/php/how-to-fix-it/core.adoc

Especially, the `mail` function accepts, as its fifth argument, parameters that
will be appended to the configured mail-sending program command line. This might
lead to a similar exploitation scenario.

==== Non-compliant code example

[source,php,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
<?php

$arg=$_GET['file'];
echo "<h1>File search results:</h1><br/>";
$cmd=escapeshellcmd('find /tmp/images -iname ' . $arg);
passthru($cmd);

?>
----

[source,php,diff-id=2,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
<?php

$arg=$_GET['arg'];
echo "<h1>Sending test mail.</h1><br/>";
mail("mail@example.org", "example subject", "Example", [], $arg);

?>
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,php,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
<?php

$arg=$_GET['file'];
echo "<h1>File search results:</h1><br/>";
$cmd='find /tmp/images -iname ' . escapeshellarg($arg);
passthru($cmd);

?>
----

[source,php,diff-id=2,diff-type=compliant]
----
<?php

$arg=$_GET['arg'];
echo "<h1>Sending test mail.</h1><br/>";
if ($arg !== "-n" || $arg !== "-v") {
  $arg = "";
}
mail("mail@example.org", "example subject", "Example", [], $arg);

?>
----

=== How does this work?

include::../../common/fix/introduction.adoc[]

> When building a system command from user-submitted data is unavoidable, using
> the `escapeshellarg` sanitizing function should be preferred. It ensures that
> the provided data will be considered a single argument and prevents the
> injection of subsequent ones.
> 
> It is also important not to combine both `escapeshellarg` and `escapeshellcmd`.
> Indeed, a call to `escapeshellcmd` on a complete command line will void any
> escaping previously added with `escapeshellarg`.
> 
> For that reason, it is not possible to prevent an argument injection issue in
> the `mail` function with `escapeshellarg`. Indeed, `mail` internally relies on
> `escapeshellcmd` for escaping purposes. In that case, a whitelist of explicitely
> allowed additional arguments should be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building a system command from user-submitted data is unavoidable, using
the `escapeshellarg` sanitizing function should be preferred. It ensures that
the provided data will be considered a single argument and prevents the
injection of subsequent ones.

It is also important not to combine both `escapeshellarg` and `escapeshellcmd`.
Indeed, a call to `escapeshellcmd` on a complete command line will void any
escaping previously added with `escapeshellarg`.

Therefore, it is impossible to prevent an argument injection issue in
the `mail` function with `escapeshellarg`. Indeed, `mail` internally relies on
`escapeshellcmd` for escaping purposes. In that case, an allowlist of explicitly
trusted additional arguments should be used.
```
